Our basic principles
Our basic principles guide our decisions and overall conduct as employees of Siemens

A: We behave correctly
We comply with the applicable laws of the countries in which we operate and ensure the 
implementation of all company guidelines, processes, and controls.
What laws must we obey?
We must be aware of and comply with the laws and regulations that apply to our daily work. These 
laws and regulations may vary from country to country. If we are uncertain or have questions, we 
contact Legal and Compliance.
What are the consequences for our company and for us as employees?
Violations of the law or failure to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines can have serious 
consequences for our company and us.
These consequences can be...
...for each of us:
1.	disciplinary action
2.	fines and damages
3.	imprisonment
...for our company:
1.	damage to Siemens' reputation, brand and market value
2.	significant fines and damages
3.	disgorgement of profit
4.	exclusion from public and private contracts
We ask ourselves the following questions when making decisions for Siemens:
*	Is it right for Siemens? Is it in line with Siemens' values and our values?
*	Is it legal?
*	Could it affect our brand if our decision becomes the subject or media coverage?
*	What would the people we care about think of our decision?
*	Are we prepared to take responsibility for our decision?
B: We respect each other
We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of each individual. We believe diversity enriches 
our workplace. We work together without regard to ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, 
skin color, gender, sexual identity and orientation, or worldview.
We do not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate 
behavior toward individuals or groups.
We apply these principles of respect to each other and third-parties with whom we interact, 
including our suppliers, customers, and business partners.
"We interact with each other in a respectful and reliable manner."
What does this mean in practice? What behavior is unacceptable? Here are a few examples:
*	Racially, offensive or xenophobic material is placed on a colleague's desk;
*	Innuendo or comments hostile to the disabled;
*	Gender-specific harassment or violence, including assaults, unwanted advances or improper 
remarks or jokes;
*	Displaying improper images or objects, including those with sexual content.
C: We create trust
We are open and honest. We take our responsibility seriously, we are reliable, and we only make 
promises we can keep.
We are sincere. We help clarify and eliminate potential deficiencies, problems, and 
misunderstandings. We do everything to fulfill the trust placed in us by our customers and the users 
of our products, services, and industry solutions.
What do we do when we make a mistake?
We all make mistakes at work. We foster a culture where we learn from our mistakes. We deal 
openly with them to prevent them from recurring. This is the only way to learn from mistakes and 
help prevent them from recurring. While most mistakes are minor, others could have serious 
consequences and should be reported.
What do we do if we observe a violation of the Business Conduct Guidelines?
We do not look away when we recognize possible violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines, 
even if they do not involve us personally. The company has numerous outlets to report possible 
violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines (see Chapter "Our reporting procedures").
In many cases, timely reporting is important to avoid or minimize negative consequences to the 
company.
D: We protect our company
We protect and promote Siemens' reputation and values. They are essential for our business success 
and ensure the sustainable future of our company. If we act illegally or inappropriately, we can cause 
considerable damage to the company.
E: As managers, we have a special responsibility
As managers, we bear s special responsibility and we take seriously our duty of care for the 
employees entrusted to us.
We create a trusting working environment and are always available to discuss with our employees 
uncertainties, compliance with legal requirements, questions, or professional and personal concerns 
with our employees. 
We set a good example and ensure our teams understand the importance of acting in accordance 
with the Business Conduct Guidelines.
We take every indication of possible misconduct seriously and report it to Legal and Compliance. We 
protect the identity of employees who report potential misconduct and protect them from 
retaliation or other negative impact.
We fulfill our organizational and supervisory duties.
"Our mangers lead by example and set the appropriate tone from the top."
What are our organizational and supervisory duties?
*	We carefully select employees based on their personal and professional qualifications and 
suitability. The duty of care increases with the importance of the task the employee has to 
perform (Duty of Selection).
*	We define binding tasks precisely and completely, especially with regard to compliance with 
legal requirements (Duty to Issue Instructions).
*	We ensure that compliance with legal requirements is constantly monitored (Duty to 
Monitor).
*	In our day-to-day business, we clearly communicate the importance of responsible business 
conduct, compliance with legal requirements, and the consequences of our misconduct. 
(Duty to Communicate).
Our Manager�s special responsibilities and duties do not release us from our own responsibilities as 
employees. We must work together to comply with the law and Siemens guidelines.

Our responsibility
We make real what matters!

F: We look after each other and ourselves
Siemens protects our fundamental rights as employees, our health, our personal security, and 
occupational safety at all locations throughout the world and when we are on business travel.
F1: Basic working conditions
Siemens fosters fair cooperation among management, employees, and employee representatives, 
and protects the fundamental rights of its employees:
No discrimination or intimidation
The principles of equal opportunity and equal treatment are guaranteed without regard to skin color, 
ethnic or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual identity, worldview, or gender. In accordance 
with the labor laws of the countries in which Siemens operates, discrimination based on these 
characteristics, sexual harassment, or other inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups will 
not be tolerated.
Free choice of employment
No one should be employed or forced to work against their will. All forms of forced labor are 
prohibited.
Prohibition of child labor
Child labor is strictly prohibited.
Adequate compensation
Siemens pays fair wages for labor and adheres to all applicable wage and compensation laws 
globally. Siemens observes "equal pay" principles and does not discriminate on the basis of gender.
Working hours
Siemens adheres to all applicable working-hours regulations globally.
Freedom of tariffs and freedom of association
Siemens recognizes the legal rights of workers to form or join existing trade unions and to engage in 
collective bargaining. Members of employee organizations or trade unions are neither disadvantaged 
nor preferred. Siemens constructively cooperates with employees, employee representatives, and 
trade unions.
Even in the event of disputes, Siemens strives to ensure sustainable and constructive cooperation in 
the long term and for solutions that reflect the interests of the company and the interests of its 
employees.

F2: Health, occupational safety and personal security
Siemens cares about us as part of its corporate responsibility.
Our health:
Siemens protects and promotes our health and well-being, guards against the risk of work-related 
accidents, and offers a wide-range of support to maintain and promote our physical and mental 
health.
Our occupational safety:
Siemens provides a safe work environment to ensure employees return home healthy and unharmed 
at the end of the working day. We ourselves contribute to this:
This is what we do:
*	We observe the safety regulations at our workplace
*	We avoid risky behavior
*	When We recognize dangerous situations, we take appropriate action

Our personal security:
Siemens is active worldwide, including in areas and situations where the security situation is critical. 
To protect our employees, the company, and our business in the best possible way, Siemens 
identifies and analyzes global security risks and assesses their potential impact.

This is what we do:
*	We educate ourselves in advance about the security risks in the countries to which 
we will be traveling and comply with prescribed security procedures and 
requirements.
*	We do not expose ourselves or our colleagues to unnecessary hazards through 
reckless behavior or by ignoring security regulations.
*	We react quickly in a critical situation, contact the emergency hotline at +49 (89) 636 
- 12345 (staffed 24 hours a day), and follow the relevant security instructions.
*	We report security incidents promptly to our security officer and/or use the security 
incident reporting tool "IncidentReporting@Siemens"(IR@S).
Further information about protecting the safety of our employees and our corporate values can be 
found on the Intranet.
Our employees are our most valuable asset. Your health and 
safety are our top priority.

G: Our markets: We act fairly and reliably
We reject all forms of corruption and bribery.
We do not tolerate any form of corruption in our business dealings anywhere in the world. This 
includes our business dealings through our external partners

G1: Fair competition: we place integrity at the heart of everything we do
Corruption
Corruption is dishonest or illegal behavior, especially by people in power, typically involving 
bribery. It can also include other acts, such as fraud, embezzlement, favoritism, and 
nepotism.
This is what we do:
*	We do not actively or passively engage in any form of corrupt conduct.
*	We report all suspected corrupt activity to our Legal and Compliance organization.
The most common form of corruption is bribery. Siemens does not tolerate any form of 
bribery.
Bribery is the act of offering, promising, or giving money, gifts, or other benefit to a public 
official or public or private employee with the aim of receiving improper advantages. Bribery 
is a criminal offense worldwide.
The term "public official" or "member of t he public sector" covers any person employed by or 
commissioned by a public authority. This includes all government officials and employees of 
non-governmental institutions who are regarded as public officials in accordance with 
applicable law.

We do not tolerate any form of bribery.
This is what we do:
We do not:
*	give or accept excessive gifts or entertainment;
*	give or accept excessive travel expenses;
*	give or accept inappropriate donations, sponsorship, or memberships;
*	give or accept inappropriate monetary payments;
*	use third-parties to bribe on Siemens' behalf; or
*	give or accept improper facilitation payments.
What are facilitation payments?
A facilitation payment is the payment of a relatively small amount of money, or the granting 
of any other benefit, usually to low-ranking public officials, for their personal benefit or to 
expedite the performance of a routine governmental action.
Facilitation payments are prohibited and can be prosecuted.
Further information on the topic of facilitation payments can be found on the Compliance 
Intranet or Compliance Handbook.
Gifts and hospitality
	Gifts and hospitality - yes, but only to a reasonable extent
In many cultures, gifts and invitations to entertainment events are important for developing 
and deepening business relationships. However, some gifts and invitations may unreasonably 
influence the recipient's decision-making or create the appearance of improper influence.
This is what we do:
*	We do not provide overly generous gifts or hospitality.
*	We do not provide gifts or hospitality in exchange for business or other benefits.
Gifts and hospitality must:
*	be in accordance with applicable laws and regulations;
Regulations
Our business counterparts, especially government officials, often have their own internal 
rules that restrict their ability to accept gifts and hospitality. These rules can be very strict 
and we must be aware of and adhere to them:
*	be transparent and correctly recorded in the company's books and records;
*	be appropriate in terms of type, value, and frequency to the occasion and the 
position of the recipient;
*	not be offered, provided, demanded, or accepted with the expectation of any type of 
advantage; and
*	never give the appearance of dishonesty or inappropriateness.
What do I have to consider with gifts and hospitality?
*	You will find the answers to these questions in the Video "Gifts and hospitality"
*	You will find out about country-specific requirements via the "WorldMap".
*	Details on the subject of gifts and hospitality can be found in the Compliance Intranet 
or Compliance Handbook.
Sponsoring
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and memberships - yes, but only to 
promote corporate goals
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and memberships are important to our 
social commitment and the pursuit of our corporate goals.
This is what we do:
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and memberships:
*	must be carefully examined to determine whether they promote the company's 
legitimate objectives;
*	may not be promised, offered, or made to obtain improper business advantages or 
for other unethical purposes;
*	must be religiously and politically neutral; and
*	must strengthen our brand and our social commitments. It is not enough to consider 
legal requirements alone.
Details on sponsorship, donations, charitable contributions, and memberships can be found 
in Siemens Circular No. 186, "Principles for Sponsoring Activities, Donations and Charitable 
Contributions, as well as Membership" , Compliance Intranet or Compliance Handbook.
Political engagement
	Political engagement
Continuous dialog with political decision-makers is highly relevant for the success of a global 
company. We are committed to political neutrality. Siemens activities with respect to 
politicians, parties, and positions will be non- partisan; and solely in support of Siemens 
business goals. We comply with the law and Siemens guidelines.
Travel Expenses
	Payment of travel expenses - yes, but only when reasonable and allowable
Siemens may be required to pay third-party travel expenses in certain business transactions. 
However, excessive reimbursement can inappropriately influence the recipient or at least 
create the appearance of influence.

This is what we do:
*	We only pay justified and appropriate travel expenses.
*	We adhere to the aforementioned regulations for gifts and hospitality.
Outgoing payments
Outgoing payments - yes, but only if used lawfully
Payments to third-parties are made every day in the course of business at Siemens. Processes and 
tools help us ensure these payments are properly documented and provided for proper purposes.
This is what we do:
*	We only maintain accounts or funds for legitimate purposes.
*	We only make payments to third-parties that are legal and have legitimate purposes.
*	We only make payments when there is proper documentation.
Involvement of third-parties
      Involvement of third-parties - yes, but without bribery
There are many legitimate reasons for involving thirdparties in business relationships. 
However, using thirdparties to unlawfully or improperly influence public officials or private 
individuals is prohibited. We therefore scrutinize business partners at the beginning of our 
business relationships and monitor the relationships as they develop.

This is what we do:
*	We scrutinize and monitor business partners and take into account their respective 
risks.
*	We are committed to ensuring that our partners in our value chain know and adhere 
to our values and compliance standards.
*	We insist on contract provisions that require our business partners to act in 
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations.
Further information on business partners can be found on the Compliance Intranet or Compliance 
Handbook.
Here are some red flags we must critically question and clarify:
*	Inconsistencies in records and payments;
*	High prices with deep discounts or unduly high profit margins;
*	Contractual partners with unclear responsibilities or questionable qualifications;
*	Suspicious personal relationships or business arrangements;
*	Unusually high fees, commissions, gifts, entertainment, or hospitality;
*	The rejection of anti-corruption contract clauses;
*	The demand for prepayment without plausible business reasons; and
*	Demands for cash payments or transfers to offshore bank accounts or third-parties.
"I will not sell the future for instant profit."
Werner von Siemens
G2: We are successful in fair competition: antitrust law and fair competition 
Antitrust law protects free, undistorted, and effective competition for the benefit of customers, 
companies, and society as a whole.
Antitrust violations can have serious consequences for our company and the employees involved, 
such as high fines, exclusion from public tenders, claims for damages, damage to reputation, and 
imprisonment.
This is what we do:
*	We never enter into anticompetitive agreements with competitors.
Anticompetitive agreements
      What are anticompetitive agreements?
Anticompetitive agreements include price agreements, market, customer, or territory 
allocations, and project agreements with competitors. Abusing a dominant position 
(indicator: more than 30 to 50 percent market share) is also prohibited.
This is what we do:
*	We only talk to competitors if we have a compelling business reason and there are no 
antitrust concerns.
We never talk to competitors about:
*	Prices, price components, or other conditions;
*	Market, customer, or territory allocation;
*	Business opportunities or incoming orders;
*	Capacities, production volumes, or quotas;
*	Corporate strategies or future market behavior; for example, sales strategies, current 
and future product developments, investments, and boycotts;
*	Offers and tenders; and
*	Conduct during tenders or the submission of bogus offers.
This is what we do:
*	We also support open competition in our relationships with customers, sales 
partners, and suppliers.
*	We never talk to customers, sales partners, or suppliers about:
o	Adherence to resale prices. In many cases, however, non-binding 
recommendations, without pressure or incentives, regarding resale prices 
and the establishment of maximum sale prices are permissible; or
o	Obstruction of exports or re-imports.
*	We handle confidential information from Siemens and third-parties, such as 
competitors, customers, sales partners, and suppliers, with care.
Confidential information
What is confidential information that deserves special protection?
Confidential information is information that is not intended to be made public. This may include non-
public information from or about Siemens, suppliers, customers, employees, agents, consultants, or 
other third-parties that is protected under legal and contractual requirements. 
This can include, for example:
*	details of a company's organization and facilities, prices, sales, profits, markets, customers, 
and other business matters;
*	offer documents;
*	information on manufacturing, research, and development processes;
*	technical information; and
*	internal reporting figures.
A few examples of what we do not do:
*	We never obtain confidential information from third- parties without justification and use it 
in an unlawful manner, such as, for example, in the bidding process.
*	We do not use confidential documents from previous employers or store them on Siemens 
networks.
Further information on antitrust law and fair competition can be found on the Compliance Intranet 
page with numerous Quick Guides.
This is what we do:
*	For products where Siemens may have a dominant position (indicator: greater than 30 to 50 
percent market share), we contact Legal and Compliance when confronted with the following 
types of conduct:
o	exclusivity agreements or loyalty discounts;
o	excessively high or low "competitive prices";
o	coupled sale of a "strong market" product with other products;
o	unequal treatment of business partners (except where there is an objective 
justification, such as, for example, different sales prices due to a volume discount); or
o	refusal of delivery or license (without an objective justification).
*	We have potentially anticompetitive business partnerships examined in advance by Legal and 
Compliance, such as:
o	working/bidding partnerships, consortia;
o	joint research and development;
o	specialization/joint production;
o	standardization and harmonization;
o	joint purchasing;
o	exclusive distribution/exclusive procurement;
o	market information systems/benchmarking; and
o	Exclusivity agreements and exclusive territory allocation in distribution and licensing 
agreements.
*	We only participate in association meetings if there is a written invitation with an agenda, 
representatives of the association are present, and minutes are kept. Further information 
can be found in the "Recommendations for action in working with associations."

G3: We comply with trade and export control regulations
As a company with international operations, it is essential for Siemens to comply with the export 
control and customs regulations applicable to national and international trade.
This is what we do:
*	We carefully ensure that the applicable customs and foreign trade regulations, including 
regulations on security in the supply chain, are checked, implemented, and complied with 
when goods are traded or transported, services are provided, or other technical know-how 
or software is transferred.
*	We thoroughly audit business in sanctioned countries.
*	We ensure that all applicable export control regulations (such as those of the European 
Union and the United States) are checked and complied with in Siemens' business activities, 
even outside the respective territories.
*	We distance ourselves from a transaction and alert Export Control when there are 
indications of possible infringements or unauthorized use of our products, services, or 
industry solutions.
Detailed information and contacts on the subject of export control can be found in Siemens Circular 
No. 226, "Global Compliance", on the Intranet page Export Control and in the Internal Export Control 
Program (EX-ICP) with its various quick guides.
Detailed information and contacts on the subject of customs can be found on the intranet page 
Customs, in the Internal Customs Control Program (Customs ICP) and in Siemens Circular No. 234, 
"Principles of Customs Law.
G4: Collective Action: Our Commitment to clean markets pays off
Siemens faces significant compliance risks in numerous markets. Collective Action is our strategic 
response to this challenge. Together with other companies, the public sector, and civil society, we 
enter into integrity and compliance pacts with our partners for business cooperation and support 
binding agreements for individual sectors and markets.
Through these joint efforts, we aim to create fair, level, and clean market conditions for all 
participants.
How do We assemble the right players to make a difference together? 
You will find the answers here.
Detailed information on Collective Action can be found on the Compliance Intranet page with videos 
on his topic.

H: Our company: We create trust and protect what makes Siemens valuable
The Siemens brand is a promise of innovation and quality. It must be relevant, tangible, and capable 
of being experienced. And it has to open doors all over the world. That is the case today. And it 
should remain that way in the future.
H1: The Siemens brand
The Siemens brand: A promise of innovation and quality
The Siemens brand is an integral part of our business and, therefore, has significant strategic 
importance. It is one of our major corporate assets and competencies, generates trust, and has a 
positive effect on all our business activities. With the Siemens brand, we distinguish ourselves from 
the competition.
This is what we do:
*	We are innovative and constantly working on new business ideas. However, we always make 
decisions to protect or strengthen the Siemens brand, not in favor of a particular business 
alone.
*	When in doubt and before making a decision regarding the Siemens brand, we contact the 
Brand Design Hotline (design-support.communications@siemens.com).
In addition to the Siemens brand, intellectual property rights, patents, copyrights, and confidential 
know-how, and their protection, are essential for our business success.
This is what we do:
*	We, as inventors, support Siemens by filing for intellectual property rights in a timely 
manner.
*	We report suspected violations of our intellectual property rights.
*	We use computer software only in accordance with applicable license terms and ensure 
compliance with all license requirements of integrated thirdparty software, commercial, and 
open source software, in our products and solutions.
*	We respect the intellectual property rights of thirdparties.
Handling of the Siemens brand and other intellectual property rights
What makes the Siemens brand so valuable?
The brand...
*	provides focus to our stakeholders, such as customers, employees, etc.
*	distinguishes us from the competition, and
*	ultimately generates trust.

Why are intellectual property rights so important to Siemens?
If our innovations are not protected, third-parties can copy our products, which leads to a loss of 
competitive advantage. When our innovations are infringed, we lose the value of our 
investments in research and development.
H2: Conflicts of interest
Conflicts of interest - we only make business decisions in the interest of Siemens
We are not influenced by personal interests when making business decisions. Such conflicts of 
interest can hinder Siemens' success in that decisions are made contrary to Siemens' interest, 
customers are driven away, or important information is disclosed.
Conflicts of interest
	Conflicts of interest may, for example:
*	harm Siemens if contracts are awarded on the basis of personal relationships that 
contain inferior terms from those of competitors; and
*	lead to reputational damage if they are made public; dissatisfied employees or 
former customers could communicate conflicts to the outside world.
There is a conflict of interest in day-to-day business if our personal interests differ from those 
of Siemens.
This is what we do:
*	We make business decisions in the best interest of our company and not on the basis 
of personal interests.
*	We anticipate and avoid situations in which the appearance of a conflict of interest 
may arise.
*	We do not, as part of our work for Siemens, engage companies with which we have a 
personal interest if it could personally benefit us, whether or not we have or can 
exert direct or indirect influence on Siemens' business decision.
*	We inform our managers of any personal interest that might exist in connection with 
the performance of our official duties.

To protect ourselves and our company, we pay close attention to possible conflicts of 
interest. The following questions help us assess whether there is a conflict or an 
appearance of a conflict:
*	Is the decision we make for Siemens influenced by personal interests?
*	What impression would the situation leave on third- parties, such as customers, 
business partners, and investors?
*	How would the public react to my business decision?

Here is a classic example of an internal conflict of interest:
There is an intimate relationship between an employee and a manager. The manager is 
obliged to disclose the conflict of interest at an early stage and change the reporting 
relationship.

Question: Is it okay if I select a supplier in whose company a close relative or a good friend is 
the contact person for Siemens?
Answer: Possibly, but only if you do it in a transparent manner. You should inform your 
manager immediately. In addition, there must be a clear separation of duties and 
independent supervision, so there is not even a suggestion of a conflict and no undue 
advantages are offered in either direction.
Question: Can I hire a relative or good friend?
Answer: Possibly. However, you must follow the regular Human Resources recruitment 
process and disclose the relationship right from the start.
For more information on conflicts of interest, see the Compliance Handbook.

Competition with Siemens
A conflict of interest may also arise in business relationships with or through investments in a 
competitor or customer of Siemens.
This is what we do:
*	We do not operate or work for a company that competes with Siemens.
*	We do not engage in any activity that competes with Siemens.
Typical examples of a competitive situation:
*	The employee also works for or advises a competitor of Siemens.
*	The employee himself competes directly with Siemens.
*	There are personal or family ties to competitors.
 Secondary employment
A conflict may also arise in the performance of secondary employments that prevent us from 
properly performing our duties at Siemens.
This is what we do:
*	Before we engage in paid secondary employment, we consult with our managers. We 
inform the Human Resources department in writing that we would like to take up 
paid secondary employment and will only do so after obtaining written consent.

Secondary employment can only be prohibited, and previously granted permission can be 
revoked, if it leads to an impairment of the employee's work performance, interferes with his 
or her duties within the company, or if there is a risk of a conflict of interest. Occasional 
writing, lecturing, and similar activities, and temporary seasonal or clerical work are not 
regarded as secondary employment.

Question: Can unpaid activities also be viewed as secondary employment?
Answer: Basically, no. If in doubt, please contact the relevant Human Resources 
representative.
Question: What could be the negative consequences of unauthorized secondary employment 
for Siemens?
Answer: One example is an accident at work caused gy your being overtired, exhausted, or 
unable to concentrate due to the additional stress caused by your secondary employment.

Investment in third-party companies
	Conflicts of interest can also arise through investments in third-party companies.
This is what we do:
*	We inform the Human Resources department in writing of any direct or indirect 
investment in companies:
*	that are business partners of Siemens if we are engaged in business with the 
company or have a board or management role in the company. With respect to 
publicly traded companies, this only applies if the investment exceeds three percent 
of the total capital; or
*	that compete with our company if we can influence the management of the 
competitor through this investment. This is presumed if the interest exceeds three 
percent of the total capital of the company.
Question: Are there other forms of influence on a company to consider besides direct or 
indirect investment?
Answer: Yes. Occasionally, our employees are offered seats on boards of other companies or 
organizations. Because this could lead to conflicts of interest and legal issues, these activities 
require Siemens' approval.
H3: Money laundering and funding of terrorism
Money laundering and the funding of terrorism - not with us!
Delivery and supply activities entail the risk of being abused for money laundering or terrorist 
financing.
Siemens strives to maintain business relationships only with reputable customers, partners, and 
companies whose business activities comply with legal requirements and whose financial resources 
are of legitimate origin.
Money laundering is the disguising of the origin of money or other assets from criminal activities and 
moving them into the legitimate economy. In addition to monetary support, the funding of terrorism 
may include other assets such as goods or merchandise.

Why do criminals launder money? How does money laundering work? What is terrorism funding? 
How can I prevent business partners from misusing Siemens to launder money or fund illegal 
activities or terrorism?
You will find the answers to these questions in the video "Money Laundering Prevention at Siemens". 
Further information on money laundering prevention can be found on the Compliance 
Intranet or Compliance Handbook.

This is what we do:
*	We use a risk-based approach to verify the identity and economic background of customers, 
business partners, and other third-parties, and the origin of payments to ensure they come 
from legitimate sources.
*	We immediately inform Legal and Compliance or our manager in the event of suspicious 
activity. When necessary, Siemens reports suspicious activity to law enforcement authorities.
Warning signs of money laundering or terrorist funding include:
*	payments channeled through a shell company, a bank account located in a tax haven, or an 
unknown third party
*	overpayments and the desire for rapid reimbursement, especially to an account other than 
the origin
*	desire for cash payment
*	an unusually large deposit
*	an unusual or unnecessarily complicated, business model for the Siemens product
*	the business partner does not have the necessary processes, human resources, or financial 
resources
*	refusal to meet in person.
Further examples can be found in the Red Flag catalogue in the Red Flag Catalog on the Intranet 
page "No opportunity for money Laundering.".

H4: Financial integrity
Financial integrity - this is how we strengthen the trust placed in us
As an international company, Siemens is committed to accurate and truthful reporting to investors, 
employees, customers, business partners, the public, and all government agencies. We follow all 
applicable laws, regulations, standards, and practices.
This is what we do:
*	We ensure our books and records are kept completely, accurately, and truthfully. They are 
prepared on time and in accordance with the applicable rules and standards.
*	We comply with the Financial Reporting Guidelines and follow internal control processes.
*	We provide correct and complete information for financial reporting purposes.

Our accounts and records include all data, certificates, and other written materials provided for 
financial reporting and disclosure purposes, and materials collected for other purposes.

This is what we do:
*	When applying tax laws, or in the event of conflicts between tax regulations, we ensure the 
tax result is consistent with the relevant economic and legal circumstances and our business 
models.
*	We do not use artificial structures or letterbox companies whose sole purpose is to obtain 
unlawful tax advantages.
*	We provide tax authorities with transparent information on our tax strategy and business 
activities in accordance with existing regulations.
For further information, please refer to the Financial Reporting Guidelines and the Risk and Internal 
Control Manual.
Am I responsible for tax matters even if I do not work directly in the Finance or Tax Department?
Yes. We are all responsible for tax matters in the context of our business activities. The correct fiscal 
representation of a business activity is not only the responsibility of the Finance or Tax Department. 
All transactions must be reflected correctly for tax purposes. For example, a customer invoice must 
contain, among other things, accurate information about the content of the service provided and the 
correct VAT.
I am planning a business transaction with a customer abroad. What do I have to do from a tax 
perspective?
If you are unsure about the tax consequences of the transaction, contact the Tax Department for 
advice.
H5: Insider trading
Insider trading - neither for us, nor for others!
Insider information may not be used or disclosed without authorization.

What is insider information?
In our work, we often come into contact with confidential information. If it becomes known, some of 
this information may even be important enough to have a material effect on the share price of 
Siemens or another company, such as, for example, one of our publicly traded customers or 
suppliers, one of our publicly traded subsidiaries, or a joint venture partner. This is called "insider 
information" as long as it has not yet been published. Insider information can also consist of many 
individual pieces of information that we have gained, for example, from discussions and documents 
inside and outside the company or received incidentally. Our individual knowledge of the situation 
always matters.
What is an insider and what are the consequences of being an insider?
An insider is someone who has inside information. This person is subject to strict legal requirements. 
In almost all countries in which Siemens operates, there are severe sanctions for the prohibited use 
of insider information. Such misuse could have considerable consequences for the company 
concerned, and result in personal and criminal liability.
In case of questions about insider/ insider information, We refer to the information provided in 
Section 4 of the Communication Principles and in Circular No. 119 (insider list).
This is what we do:
*	We do not engage in transactions based on insider information, such as the purchase or sale 
of a share or option or the cancellation of a share purchase order, for us or for others.
*	We do not induce others, such as friends or bank advisors, to engage in securities 
transactions on the basis of insider information, and we do not recommend such 
transactions to them.
*	We treat insider and potential insider information with strict confidentiality and ensure that 
unauthorized persons cannot gain access to it.

How do we know if we are an insider?
We must consider whether information we receive can have a significant impact on our share price 
such that, if disclosed, it represents insider information. Ultimately, Siemens cannot make this 
decision for us. Furthermore, it is not the formal inclusion in an insider list that is decisive, but 
whether we are actually aware of insider information. Whether an insider list is opened and who is 
included in it should be viewed as a separate decision to be made by the company. This also applies 
to insider information that concerns another company.
Can we be sure we are not violating the ban on insider trading when participating in employee 
stock ownership programs?
Siemens strives to enable us to participate in employee stock ownership programs with the lowest 
possible risk of violating the insider trading prohibition. However, this does not rule out the 
possibility that we may have knowledge of insider information in individual cases. Therefore, when 
actively participating in employee stock programs, we should always ask ourselves whether we can 
make the purchase or sale decisions without being influenced by possible insider information.

H6: Corporate assets
How we responsibly protect our corporate assets
Our corporate assets are essential to our business success. For this reason, we ensure that these 
assets are handled responsibly and fully protected. As employees, we play a decisive role in achieving 
this goal.
We identify our critical corporate assets and implement protection measures to adequately protect 
them
We identify our critical corporate assets and implement protection measures to adequately 
protect them
In order to adequately protect our corporate assets, we need to know and evaluate them.
This is what we do:
*	We identify critical business assets in our respective areas of responsibility and 
classify them according to their potential impact in the event of a security incident.
*	We develop and implement holistic protection measures based on the classification 
of corporate assets.
*	We ensure the sustainable protection of our corporate assets by regularly reviewing 
the classifications and protection measures.
We treat company information with due care
Siemens attaches great importance to ensuring that sensitive company information cannot 
fall into the hands of unauthorized persons or third-parties. In this way, we create the trust 
required for worldwide cooperation with customers and partners.
This is what we do:
*	We classify information according to company specifications and treat it according to 
its protection class. This means we do not use information and documents marked 
"restricted", "confidential", or "strictly confidential" externally. This also applies to 
internal social media platforms, unless the terms of use permit otherwise.
*	We only send confidential or critical business content in encrypted form and store it 
accordingly.
*	We do not share personal passwords and access codes with third-parties.
*	We do not disclose confidential information.
*	We always adhere to the Basic Principles of Communication when dealing with 
company information. This also applies to business and personal use of social media.
Information is classified as "unrestricted", "restricted", "confidential" and "strictly 
confidential".
Social media are valuable channels for communicating with our customers, recruiting 
qualified employees, and establishing Siemens' presence as an employer. They enable us all 
to work together effectively across organizations and regions. At the same time, they present 
risks and their use may be subject to local regulations. Details for business use are regulated 
in: Siemens Circular no. 187 "Internal and external use of social media".
Basic Principles of Communication
*	We take the confidentiality of internal company information into account in all 
communications.
*	We check non-public information for its potential status as insider information prior 
to publication.
*	We adhere to the defined core messages to ensure the company-wide consistency 
and reliability of the messages.
*	We are particularly cautious with forecasts and other forward-looking statements.
*	We respond to rumors and speculation with "No comment".
*	We are careful during our private conversations.
*	We do not communicate within the "quiet period".
Examples of confidential information can be found in the chapter on free competition 
(chapter G2).
 We handle company equipment and facilities with due care
We treat with care the company equipment and facilities at our disposal for our daily work.
This is what we do:
*	We take responsibility that the facilities and materials provided to us, such as telephones, 
laptops, e-mail and intranet, internal social media platforms, copiers, mailrooms, and tools, 
are only used for business purposes consistent with local company policy.
*	We are permitted to use corporate Internet access for private purposes - including external 
social media - consistent with local company policy.
*	When we privately publish content on social media platforms and identify ourselves as 
Siemens employees, we make it unmistakably clear, through a disclaimer or otherwise, that 
we are expressing our personal opinion and that it does not necessarily reflect the position of 
our company.
*	We do not retrieve or share information that supports or encourages racial hatred, 
glorification of violence or other crimes, or content that is sexually offensive to a particular 
culture.
*	We ensure that no recordings, files, images, or sound reproductions are made using our 
company's equipment, unless it directly relates to our professional activity and our manager 
approves.
H7: Data protection and privacy
Data protection and privacy - We are aware of our responsibilities
The protection of personal data plays an important role in our digitized world. We handle it carefully 
and responsibly and respect everyone's privacy. The loss or improper use of personal data can have 
serious consequences for the individuals concerned. It is therefore very important for Siemens to 
ensure that this data is effectively protected and used only for legitimate purposes.
All of us who handle the personal data of employees, customers, or third-parties bear a high level of 
responsibility.
Personal data is information about specific or identifiable natural persons, such as name and address, 
photos, personnel number, bank data, digital identifiers, or health data.
This is what we do:
*	We collect and process personal data confidentially, only for legitimate, predetermined 
purposes, and in a transparent manner.
*	We only process personal data if it is protected against loss, modification, and unauthorized 
use or disclosure by appropriate technical and organizational measures.
*	We will immediately inform our company's local Data Protection Organization of possible 
data protection violations.
Further information on data protection can be found on Compliance Intranet page or in 
the Compliance Handbook.
I: Our portfolio: World-class products, services and industry solutions
Siemens stands for world-class quality and wants to inspire its customers with excellent and 
innovative products, services, and industry solutions.
Our top priority is the security of our portfolio for customers and all those who come into contact 
with it, and its legal conformity, quality, and environmental compatibility. Products and services sold 
by Siemens do not pose unacceptable risks to life, health, or property. Compliance with applicable 
technical regulations for approval and marketing in our market countries is a fundamental 
requirement for the design and distribution of our products and services. We keep our technical 
promises (technical compliance).
In a world of "smart products" and ever-increasing digitalization, our aim is to fulfill the trust placed 
in Siemens and in us.
This is what we do:
*	In our areas of responsibility, we ensure that our products, services, and industry solutions 
are safe and comply with applicable legal requirements in our market countries for their 
safety, approval, marketing, and use.
*	We keep our technical promises.
*	If we become aware of any quality, safety, or other conformity defects in our area of 
responsibility, or if there are any indications of such defects, we will follow-up and report 
them.
*	We observe the ten principles of cybersecurity in everything we do.
Our standards for the safety, legal compliance, and quality of the Siemens portfolio are based on the 
following fundamental principles:
*	Prioritization of safety and legal compliance
*	Customer and business focus in everything we do
*	Personal commitment to quality
*	Early testing to foster quick learning
*	Real-time data and openness
*	Prevention, risk management, and systematic improvement
*	Quality competence for everybody
*	Quality managers valued as business team members.

Where can violations occur in the area of technical compliance?
*	Active deception: Making declarations that contain false product information.
*	Deception by omission: Omitting information about product defects at any point in their 
development, marketing, or use.

The ten principles for cyber security (Charter of Trust) are:
1.	 Responsibility for cyber and IT security
2.	 Responsibility for the digital supply chain
3.	Cyber security as the plant standard
4.	Focusing on the needs of users
5.	Innovation and co-creation
6.	Making cyber security an integral part of training
7.	Certification of critical infrastructures and IoT solutions
8.	Increasing transparency and responsiveness
9.	Regulatory framework
10.	Promoting joint initiatives
More information about the Charter of Trust can be found at: www.charter-of-trust.com
J: Our partners: We work with responsible partners
Business relationships with our customers, suppliers, and other business partners are fundamental to 
Siemens.
We maintain business relationships only with reputable partners who comply with the law.
We protect the interests of our customers through the careful selection of suppliers and other 
business partners and through the standards we set for our own actions. That is why we cooperate 
with excellent partners worldwide.
This is what we do:
*	We carefully select our suppliers and other business partners.
*	We contractually oblige our suppliers and business partners to adhere to a uniform Code of 
Conduct for Siemens Supplier and Third-Party Intermediaries.
*	Sustainability is a core element of our supplier management.
The Code of Conduct is based, among other things, on the UN Global Compact and the principles of 
the International Labor Organization, and it reflects the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines, which 
apply to the entire company.
The following principles apply to cooperation with our partners:
*	We work closely with our suppliers and business partners.
*	We partner with our suppliers and help them improve.
*	We constantly analyze our current business relationships and react immediately to emerging 
risks.
*	We only work with suppliers who are prepared to eliminate problems or implement risk 
reduction measures.
*	We conduct appropriate due diligence reviews, including compliance with export controls 
and anti-money laundering laws.
*	We assess project risks when deciding whether to bid on a project.
Further information can be found on the intranet:
*	Supplier to Selection & Monitoring
*	Risk Assessment of Customer Projects (LoA)
*	Business Partner Selection & Monitoring (BP)
*	Money Laundering (AML)
*	Human Rights Assessments (HRC)
*	Export Control (EX)

K: Our responsibility to society and the environment
Siemens serves society wherever we operate. As a globally active company with innovative and 
investment capabilities, Siemens shares responsibility for sustainable development worldwide and 
makes a variety of contributions to it. In addition, Siemens is voluntarily and purposefully committed 
to promoting social concerns and needs.
K1: Our commitment to international agreements and recommendations
Siemens is participant of the United Nations Global Compact. Its ten principles and the Global 
Industry. All Union framework agreement are binding on the entire company.
We are committed to promoting these principles within our sphere of influence. Respect for human 
rights, fundamental employee rights, environmental protection, and the ban on corruption are an 
integral part of our business.
In line with its commitment under the Global Compact, Siemens expects us and our suppliers and 
business partners worldwide to comply with the following guidelines:
*	International Bill of Human Rights, consisting of:
o	Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
o	International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights;
o	International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;
*	European Convention on Human Rights;
*	ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of Principles on Multinational 
Enterprises and Social Policy and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work, (in particular, on the following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition of forced 
labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association, and the right to collective 
bargaining), and fundamental freedoms;
*	OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises;
*	Agenda 21 on sustainable development (final document of the fundamental UN Conference 
on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro);
*	UN Convention against Corruption; and
*	OECD Convention against Bribery of Foreign Public Officials.
K2: Human rights
Siemens proclaims human rights are a core element of responsible business conduct and advocate 
for human rights in its value chain. Siemens operates in close alignment with the United Nations' 
guiding principles for business and human rights.
Compliance with the human rights laws and regulations is essential. Siemens expects us to act in 
accordance with the principles of the Global Compact.
Key principles of the Global Compact
*	Principle 1:
Businesses support and respect the protection of internationally recognized human rights.
*	Principle 2:
Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
*	Principles 3 to 6:
Businesses recognize the essential requirements regarding workers' rights.

This is what we do:
*	We examine the decisions that we make on behalf of our company at an early stage for 
possible adverse effects on the human rights of others inside and outside Siemens.
*	We strive to avoid or mitigate negative effects on human rights that occur in connection with 
our business activities, regardless of whether Siemens has caused or contributed to these 
effects.
*	We respect the human rights of local communities and of people who are particularly 
vulnerable.
Which groups are particularly in need of protection?
These include - depending on the specific facts and legal circumstances - members of indigenous 
peoples, children, people with disabilities, and people who are disadvantaged or exposed to special 
risks because of their skin color, ethnic or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual identity, 
worldview, or gender.
K3: Environment
Environmental protection is a corporate responsibility, social responsibility, and an important success 
factor for Siemens. In all units of the company and in all countries in which we operate, it is our goal 
to protect the environment and conserve resources.
We work on environmental protection within the company and together with our customers, for 
example, by continuously improving energy and resource efficiency.
Siemens expects us to engage in environmentally conscious behavior every day. We should be aware 
of our exemplary roles when it comes to the environment.
 What environmental programs does Siemens have?
The Siemens environmental programs are designed to conserve resources throughout the entire 
product lifecycle, reduce recycling waste, and make our own business activities CO2-neutral. The 
Siemens Environmental Portfolio is our and our company's response to climate change, resource 
scarcity, and threats to the environment.
Our company meets the ecological demands of its partners by developing future-oriented and 
resource-efficient solutions, products, and business models. Consistent and innovative 
environmental protection management is an integral part of our business processes and goes beyond 
legal requirements. We exert an influence on environmental impacts at an early stage in product and 
production planning, not only in the manufacturing phase, but also in the design, sales, utilization, 
service, and disposal phases. Climate protection plays a particularly important role for our company.
This is what we do:
*	Climate protection is closely linked to energy consumption. We use energy rationally and 
efficiently.
*	We try to avoid or recycle waste.
*	We design our processes to achieve the best possible environmental compatibility of 
products and plants and avoid unnecessary emissions and noise pollution
Our reporting procedures
What to do if there are signs of possible misconduct?
Siemens expects us to report possible violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines. In so doing, we 
help to identify and eliminate misconduct and grievances and protect ourselves and the company 
against risks or damages that may result.
We may report circumstances that indicate a violation of the Business Conduct Guidelines to the 
following persons or entities:
*	managers
*	Chief Compliance Officer
*	Legal and Compliance personnel
*	Human Resources personnel
*	"Tell Us" Hotline
*	Siemens ombudsman
*	Employee representatives.
Information on possible violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines can be provided confidentially 
and anonymously as needed. Siemens will examine all reports and take appropriate measures. 
Siemens does not tolerate any retaliation against complainants or whistleblowers. Violations of this 
prohibition will be punished as compliance violations.
All allegations of possible violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines are responded to in 
accordance with formal company-wide processes. These processes take into account the 
presumption of innocence and the participation rights of employee representatives where required 
by local policy. Siemens will take appropriate disciplinary action in the event of demonstrable 
violations.
Siemens will apply the same principles to allegations of wrongdoing brought by third-parties.
More information on how to handle compliance cases and fair competition can be found on 
the Compliance Intranet page or in the Compliance Handbook.
